// --------------------------------------------
// Executive Influence
// --------------------------------------------
	https://www.linkedin.com/learning/executive-influence/what-to-do-before-you-influence?u=2101921

<-- Background
  Regular Influence
  	Using tactics to get the job done

  Executive Influence
  	Energize people to create possibilities for the next tasks beyond. 
  		Find new ways / resources

  		Most people want to do better and be better; they'll respond if you give them the vehicle. Executinve influce is this vehicle.

  		Is this the forming relationships and alliances I see for high level positions?

  
<--  Executing Influence Roadmap
	--> 5 additions to regular influence
	  	* Set aside 2 hours, 2 times per week, just to think
  			what you're doing
  			what you are goint to do
  			why?

	  		Thinking allows more deliberat thought, and discplined action 

	  	* Additions to regular influence, executing influence requires
	  		why to influence
	  		who to influence
	  		how to influence
	  		what to do before influencing
	  		how to extend influence

<-- How to choose WHY to influence; 
	Exercise: "Convince well talented people to work long hours far from home for almost no pay"

	* Have 3 levels of purpose
		- Tactical: 
			What informatoin they should know
			The emotions they should feel
			The actions they should take

		- Strategic : Advance the 3 Rs
			Drive for exception RESULTS
			In a way to strengthn RELATIONSHIPS
			and enhance your REPUTATION (integrity, know-how, etc.. )

		- Foundational Purpose
			This is a company's logo

			Bring out the best

			Something bigger than themselves
				innovation?  social change?

			If done right, this multiplies the ; so others want to join


<-- How to choose WHOM to influence
	Regular influence: influence they key decision makers

	How to engage more people more impactfully
		Use purpose as a passport

		Something bigger and feel better doing it

		Turns rivals into partners
			Build more time build bridges than trenches

		Expand your possibility zone
			Go beyond influencing stake holders, but other future stakeholders and current influencers



<-- How to choose HOW to influence
	"Participate with joy tin the sorrows of the world" Buddhist

	There are going to be shit we can't control, but we can control how we face the shit 

	Give people a reason to
		CARE: should be better
		BELIEVE: can be better
		TRY and TRY: we make it better and continue to make it better
		Ex: hospital plays rock song whenever a Covid19 patient recovers

	Always earn a F+ (Feeling better)
		Your job is to make people feel better, after every conversation, than they did before

		Be someone who people wants to be around no matter how bad things are

	Tell people their adventure story, how they were heros
		Nobody hits as hard as life. It's about how hard you can get hit and keep moving forward.


<-- What do do BEFORE you influence
	Do the job that poeple 2 levels above would do. Go 2 levels up.

	Build influence long before needing it, but delivering on your work and showing it

	- Always associate yourself with top priorities. Learn what decision makers value; you'll connect more with influential people

	- Help senior leaders (volunteer, reach out, start relationships). Prepare the most missing data; Be useful

	- Connect throughout your organization

	- Join communiteis of purpose (inside or outside of organization) that one is passionate about
		Helps grows relationship
		Allows you to enjoy being in involved
		Helps you to learn

	- Mentor others
		Give them challenging, strategic, real projects. These mentees help do more things, and gain visibility. Win win.



<-- Extend your influence
	Learn from leaders you know and DONT know

	"What did I do today to make myself a better person than I was yesterdchang
	"


